---
layout: post
title: "Thoughts"
date: 2023-09-20 23:09
---

---

Thoughts seem to me to be seeds. <br>
You throw them to the wind, <br>
And if the conditions are right, <br>
They germinate. <br>
And if the conditions are still right, <br>
They grow to enjoy the privilege of knowing life.

---

If the fruits they bear are fit to be consumed, <br>
And if others around put their awareness to find them, <br>
They too enjoy the fruits of life. <br>
But fruits don't hide themselves, <br>
Unless they are green. <br>
Best to leave those on the tree, <br>
Bitter at best, toxic at worst. <br>
They could even kill you. <br>
But, when they are ripe for the picking, <br>
They present themselves for the whole world to be seen <br>
That they too may spread their wondrous seed.

---

"But I'm not hungry today!", you say. <br>
Well good! <br>
Please do take a rest and fast today! <br>
If you ever want to taste my fruits, <br>
I need time and the right conditions to bloom. <br>
Your fasting gives me the chance to form in another, <br>
To live, to grow, to transform and to thrive.

---

You give me boundless joy. <br>
Read it in my words. <br>
Hear it in my song. <br>
See it in my vision. <br>
It is the longing for you, O Life.

---

When you are _not_ in the mood to enjoy me, <br>
Thank you for your restraint in not pulling me out like a weed.

When you are in the mood to enjoy me, <br>
Thank you for your gift of life that sustains me, that I may sustain others.

When you are in the mood to prune me, <br>
Thank you for your compassion and your gentle touch that my form may flourish.

---

"Da-da-da".
What a profound thought that those three gave to me! <br>
If only I could **give** you the time to share that thought and the journey it took to get to me. <br>
If only I could **be compassionate** enough to understand that, you, might not. <br>
If only I could have the wisdom to **be restrained** from bolting, when it is not yet season. <br>
If only I could have the courage to live out that thought with awareness in every moment. <br>
If only ... **I could share this life with you joyfully**.

---

Life raises the dead all of the time. <br>
If you don't believe me, just plant a garden and watch closely.

In this endless garden of thoughts we inhabit, <br>
It's up to us how **this thought** ends and **that thought** begins.

In this plentiful garden of thoughts we inhabit, <br>
You cultivate many trees of whose fruit I have never tasted.

In this lush garden of thoughts we inhabit, <br>
How much joy it would bring me.
If only... <br>
From time to time, <br>
I could visit to share some fruit with you. <br>
If only... <br>
From time to time, <br>
You could visit to share some fruit with me.

---

If only...

---

