---
layout: post
title: "Who is \"it\"?"
date: 2023-09-15 18:04
---

---

## Who is "it"?

The answer is blindingly obvious once you understand _who_ "it" is.

You wake up every morning and see "it" all around and within.

Yet, you spend the rest of the unfolding of "it" trying to understand _who_ "it" is.

---

Our every joy comes from "it".

Our every sorrow comes from "it".

Who said that joy arises from sorrow? 

"Who" said that joy arises from sorrow.

Who said that sorrow arises from joy?

"Who" said that sorrow arises from joy.

---

Joy arises when I remove sorrow from "it".

Sorrow arises when I remove joy from "it".

Through compassion and restraint, "it" removes "sorrow" and gives "joy".

---

Who can help me to understand "it"?

"Who" can help me to understand "it".

---

"You" helps me understand "it".

"She" helps me understand "it".

"He" helps me to understand "it"

"They" helps me to understand "it"

"It" helps me to understand "it".

---

But, I should not forget _what_ "it" is.

"It" is "you" and "me" and "her" and "him" and "them" and "this" and "that".

From one "it", "it" manifests and emminates blissfully as a multiplicity,

"Who" are blissfully unaware of "it".

Until "it" calls "us" and "we" find "it".

Until "it" calls "him" and "he" find "it".

Until "it" calls "her" and "she" find "it".

Until "it" calls "you" and "you" find "it".

Until "it" calls "them" and "they" find "it".

Until "it" calls "this" and "this" finds "it".

Until "it" calls "that" and "that" finds "it".

Until "it" calls "it" and "it" finds that "it" is "it".

---

Who can help me to understand "it"?

"Who" can help me to understand "it"

There are no doubts left when we know that _"who"_ indeed is _"it"_.

---

